---
title: 2020-01-27
---

# Release Notes: 2020-01-27

[EL7 pinned
repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20200127/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus has transitioned check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb.

Operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1578942442 (1ff7ebb)

* No user-facing changes.

## data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1579718901 (3e406ed)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.
> We plan to remove these deprecated functions on 2020-01-31 for the SaaS site,
> and in the subsequent Inside release on 2020-02-10. This will affect
> CAQL checks as well as CAQL Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users
> a warning when one of the deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a
> more powerful tag-search feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* CAQL: Add `histogram:ratio_above()` / `:ratio_below()` functions.
* CAQL: Fix a bug where `fill()` would not fill in missing data.
* CAQL: Improve `window:merge` performance.
* CAQL: Fix a bug where optimization rules were falsely applied.
* CAQL: Fix a bug where long-running queries could trigger watchdog timeouts.
* CAQL: Fix an issue where failed proxy attempts could cause `find()` errors
  even when `N-W+1` nodes were successfully interrogated.

## fault_detection

Version (faultd): 0.1.1578944874 (3e3ea63)

* No user-facing changes.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190812#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1579636255 (0b6b018)

* Fix: Results from IRONdb are not guaranteed to be in the order requested.
  Ensure that request labels match result labels before returning data to
  original requestor.
* Adds support for `activity` and `latest` query parameters for requests to
  metric search and metric lookup by ID. Also adds the corresponding new fields
  to the result data from `/metric` endpoint requests. The data returned in the
  new `activity` and `latest` fields uses the same JSON formats used by IRONdb.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1579804588 (178c6b6) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1579804588 (0d6e5fe) (EL6)

* (API role) Template a previously hard-coded Apache config file that deals
  with HTTP request headers for direct browser-to-API requests. These requests
  are not yet extensively used.
* Add `DB::admin` user parameters to the `circonus.conf` file. This is
  currently used only by a script that gets run once during initial Inside
  deployment.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.9.10

* Move eventer SSL debug logging to `debug/eventer/ssl`.
* Fix use-after-free in http logging when HTTP/2 sessions are interrupted.
* Make the lua subsystem interrupt as it approaches a watchdog timeout.
* Fix compressed uploads in `rest_get_raw_upload`.
* `mtev_json_object` ref counting is now atomic.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1570571834 (00b2aa2)

* No changes since [2019-10-21](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20191021#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1578942442 (df23193)

* (Broker) Fix short reads of compressed httptrap submissions.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1580074212 (c5ecd76)

* Bugfix: `display_name` property was lost in Cloudwatch check creation via
  API.
* Bugfix: Ruleset Groups in the API could not reference a pattern-based
  ruleset.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190909#web_stream)
