---
title: 2020-02-10
---

# Release Notes: 2020-02-10

[EL7 pinned
repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20200210/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus has transitioned check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb.

Operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1580893408 (2274d22)

* No user-facing changes.

## data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1581090623 (947e2c9)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.  We
> plan to remove these deprecated functions soon for the SaaS site, and in the
> subsequent Inside release. This will affect CAQL checks as well as CAQL
> Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users a warning when one of the
> deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a more powerful tag-search
> feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* CAQL: Add `integrate:while(`) function
* CAQL: Add `forecasting:auto()` method
* CAQL: Add broadcasting support to `forecasting:slope()/:regression()`

## fault_detection

Version (faultd): 0.1.1580504794 (ad15a94)

* Surface an existing statistic, `collected`, from each broker that faultd has
  seen metrics from. This metric is sourced from the `metrics_collected`
  statistic exposed by the broker's "selfcheck" module. It represents the total
  metric observations recorded by that broker, prior to filtering.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.13.0

* Automatically load all available modules.
* FQ plugin modules are now in a subdirectory of `/opt/circonus/libexec`.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1579636255 (0b6b018)

* No changes since [2020-01-27](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20200127#goapi)

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1579804588 (178c6b6) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1579804588 (0d6e5fe) (EL6)

* No changes since [2020-01-27](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20200127#hooper)

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.9.10

* No changes since [2020-01-27](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20200127#libmtev)

## notification

Version: 0.1.1570571834 (00b2aa2)

* No changes since [2019-10-21](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20191021#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1580893408 (d1156f8)

* (Broker) Fix SNMP value type coercion.
* (Broker) Support 0.0.0.0 as a global target for statsd checks.
* Simplify MQ routing and make it hookable.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1581103420 (7b53748)

* Bugfix: rule_set_group API "unexpected error" with double-submission or
  duplicate key conflicts.
* Bugfix: PUT to rule_set_group API would always return an error.
* Bugfix: fix Postgres database scaffolding order to avoid an SQL error on
  initial Inside setup.
* Bugfix: graph datapoint.alpha property was inconsistently numeric or
  string-quoted in API output.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190909#web_stream)
