---
title: 2021
weight: 19
---

# Release Notes 2021

## 2021-02-08

[EL7 pinned
repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20210208/x86_64/`

### ca

Version: 0.1.1612472455 (ff6ddf6)

* The `circonus-ca_processor` service will now automatically detect when its
  PostgreSQL connection goes away, and reconnect. This removes the need to
  restart the service when the web_db Postgres service is restarted.
* Update service from SysV-init to systemd.


### caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1611672414 (6d33887)

* Show check cluster selection based on CAQLbroker's custom method of assigning
  checks to nodes.


### data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, stratcon

Version: 0.1.1612556757 (a2acce9)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.  We
> plan to remove these deprecated functions soon for the SaaS site, and in the
> subsequent Inside release. This will affect CAQL checks as well as CAQL
> Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users a warning when one of the
> deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a more powerful tag-search
> feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* Log NNTBS timeshard being referenced at the time of an LMDB-related crash, to
  aid in repair.
* Use external numlua.
* Added a new FIFO to streamline raw fetch, reducing latency and memory
  requirements.
* Fix CAQL optimizer and allow push-down of more chains into direct `/fetch`
  expressions.
* Implement `sort:label(reverse=0)` and `sort:{mean,min,max}(reverse=0)` CAQL
  functions.
* Implement `filter:limit(N)`, `filter:label(regex)`, and
  `filter:not:label(regex)` CAQL functions.
* Implement `filter:{mean,min,max}(X)` and `filter:not:{mean,min,max}(X)` CAQL
  functions.
* Implement `histogram:random()` to synthesize histograms for common density
  functions.
* Implement `randomwalk(max,min,change,seed=)` CAQL function for generating
  random data.
* Implement `graphite:aliassub` in CAQL to emulate Graphite's aliasSub function.
* Implement `stats:ratio(of=1)` in CAQL to calculate each input stream over the
  sum of streams.
* Added optional verbose `rollup/delete` debug logging.
* Fix race in raw data rollups where we could attempt to roll data up before
  opening the db.
* Support vectorized operations across most CAQL functions (stats and ops).
* Add several Graphite-style functions to assist those migrating from Graphite.
* Allow CAQL #pragmas to have values.
* Allow CAQL #pragmas to be one-line (no trailing line feed required).
* Support `#min_period=Xs` as a grangular replacement for `hf:find()`.
* Leverage `level_index` for tag searches on `__name` that are explicitly
  using the `[graphite]` matching engine (e.g.
  `and(__name:[graphite]*.prod.**.count)`).
* Update to new libnoit metric search APIs.
* Further improvements to activity tracking accucracy.


### fault_detection

Version: 0.1.1611592814 (6c443eb)

* Adopt new libnoit search APIs.


### FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.13.7

* Queue drops are tracked as `dropped_to`.
* Web UI updated to display queue drops/rate.
* `-b` option deprecated, `-B` added, and Backtrace integration (libbcd) is now
  disabled by default.


### GoAPI

Related roles: api

Version: 0.9.0

* Add support for new b64 syntax in the v3 query parser.
* Correct a bug in origin verification for API CORS headers.
* Add a default `X-Snowth-Advisory-Limit` header to all proxy requests.
* Correct the implementation of query limits on IRONdb tag searches.
* Correct a metric search error that caused some base64 encoded regex searches
  to fail.


### Hooper

Version: 0.1.1612476339 (ddf57af)

* Accommodate CA service move to systemd.


### libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.12.17

* Decode `+` to space in querystring decoding.


### notification

Version: 0.1.1611166949 (3f20f18)

* No changes since [2021-01-25](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2021#2021-01-25)


### Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1611619043 (b9b5cbd)

* Fix tag search NPEs.
* Fix memory issues with tag search.
* Register `noit_check_t *` ctype wih mtev lua hooks.
* (broker) Write a whole line at a time for console command `show
  timing_slots`.
* Update web console to latest libmtev web bits.
* Introduce API for metric search with opaque types.


### Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1612802676 (40816cf)

* Bugfix: API `check_bundle._reverse_connection_urls` address:port values were
  incorrect in some cases.
* New broker slots will no longer have `.noit.circonus.net` appended to their
  CNs.
* Update: The `/custom_dashboard` API endpoints have been forwarded to GoAPI
  for all installations.


### web_stream

Version: 0.1.1591797218 (3c0de1a)

* No changes since [2020-06-15](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2020#2020-06-15)


## 2021-01-25

[EL7 pinned
repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20210125/x86_64/`

### caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1608059216 (bdaa081)

* No changes since [2021-01-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2021#2021-01-11)


### data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, stratcon

Version: 0.1.1610656849 (865c4d0)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.  We
> plan to remove these deprecated functions soon for the SaaS site, and in the
> subsequent Inside release. This will affect CAQL checks as well as CAQL
> Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users a warning when one of the
> deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a more powerful tag-search
> feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* Improvements to activity tracking accuracy.
* Added optional logging and increased error reporting for raw shard rollups
  and deletes.
* Improve accuracy when compacting metricsdb by accounting for out-of-order
  surrogates arriving.
* `histogram:count*` and `histogram:rate*` CAQL functions now work on
  sub-minute periods.
* `histogram:count*` CAQL functions now return raw counts instead of per-minute
  values.
* `histogram:rate*` CAQL functions now take an option named `period` to specify
  the denominator units (default: per second).
* `histogram:count_bucket` and `histogram:rate_bucket` have been renamed
  `histogram:count_bin` and `histogram:rate_bin`, respectively.
* [raw_ingestor] Performance improvements when sending data to jlog.
* Reconstitute process now pulls activity data from the surrogate db rather
  than relying on raw data to fill it in. This will prevent the possible loss
  of activity data.


### fault_detection

Version: 0.1.1610649467 (13af349)

* Fix erroneously doubled initial absence window on pattern-based rules.
* Support check tags in notifications. Fault will now include check-level tags
  in messages to the Notification system, enabling them to be included in
  alerts.


### FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.13.5

* No changes since [2021-01-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2021#2021-01-11)


### GoAPI

Related roles: api

Version: 0.8.20

* Correct a bug that caused the `_cannonical_metric_name` and `_signature`
  fields not to populate when looking up an individual `/alert`.
* Remove redundant cache invalidations that could cause a race condition in
  the API authentication token application approval process.
* Correct an error that could cause certain values for a search query order
  parameter to return a 500 error.


### Hooper

Version: 0.1.1610404291 (7f14c8b)

* If the `external_host` API attribute is defined, and the certificate type is
  set to `internal`, use the `external_host` value. Previously in this
  situation, the certificate would always be issued for `api.[domain]`.


### libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.12.16

* (broker, caql_broker, fault_detection) Fix potential off-by-one error in
  clustering.
* (broker, caql_broker, fault_detection) Fix stack smash on cluster hash table
  lookups on clusters of more than 16 nodes.
* (broker, caql_broker, fault_detection) Increase maximum cluster size to 256
  nodes.


### notification

Version: 0.1.1611166949 (3f20f18)

* Shortened and reduced debug log output.
* Optimized message formatting, limit message detail/size.


### Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1610653240 (c71a100)

* (broker) Fix crash in SNMP check module.
* (broker) Performance improvements in the StatsD check module.
* (broker) Add `available` and `ssl_available` metrics to the TCP check module.
* Allow metric names with empty stream tags (`foo|ST[]`) as valid metrics.
* (broker) If a check's XML node name isn't valid, use name/value encoding.


### Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1611416884 (df0b650)

* Add automatic service dashboards for Apache, NGINX, and Memcached checks.


### web_stream

Version: 0.1.1591797218 (3c0de1a)

* No changes since [2020-06-15](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2020#2020-06-15)


## 2021-01-11

[EL7 pinned
repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20210111/x86_64/`

### caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1608059216 (bdaa081)

* No user-facing changes.


### data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, stratcon

Version: 0.1.1608133589 (a449354)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.  We
> plan to remove these deprecated functions soon for the SaaS site, and in the
> subsequent Inside release. This will affect CAQL checks as well as CAQL
> Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users a warning when one of the
> deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a more powerful tag-search
> feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* Add `-R` flag to snowthsurrogatecontrol tool that will allow repairing
  corrupt surrogate databases.
* Better error reporting and handling for various `find` calls.
* The shard compactor script now checks the shard's status just prior to
  replacement, to make sure it is still offline.
* Support `metric_name`, `display_name`, and multiple `tag` values in
  v2 search conversion.
* Increased logging for LMDB errors and resize, detect resize failures,
  and improve LMDB and RocksDB retries.
* Improved logging for ingestion flatbuffer errors.
* Fix stack overflow when fetching many histograms in sequence.


### fault_detection

Version: 0.1.1606942529 (f49a224)

* Send broker information to the Notification system on every alert. Addresses
  failures to suppress notifications when a broker is unavailable.


### FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.13.5

* Force disconnect on message read/write error.
* Reuse listener threads.
* Various code cleanups.
* Better bounds checking on auth handshake (allow full size).
* Fix BCD integration.


### GoAPI

Related roles: api

Version: 0.8.17

* Changes the way metric search handles category-only v3 search queries, such
  as: `and(component)`. Previously these were sent to IRONdb as:
  `and(component:*)`, now the query will be sent unchanged.
* Corrects an error in metric lookup by ID query creation causing searches for
  metrics containing the `"` character to fail.
* Changes the behavior of CORS headers for the API and proxy servers to match
  the behavior of the Perl API.
* Corrects an error in metric lookup by ID url parsing which caused the `%`
  character to be handled incorrectly.
* Corrects how `/metric` endpoint handles requests with the `count_only` query
  parameter.
* Corrects an issue causing IRONdb proxy error messages to contain unreadable
  messages.
* Fix errors that occur when memcache operations fail.
* Corrects a bug that could cause server panics if no memcache servers were
  assigned in the configuration.
* Fixes an error that would allow certain values to break db queries with the
  order parameter on API search endpoints.
* Corrects an error that occurs when metric search operation contain multiple
  terms containing only tag categories and not tag values.
* Corrects how the db.Stats() `wait_duration` metric data is reported.
* Corrects an error with metric search query parsing of search terms containing
  a tag category but not a tag value.
* Allows the `parse_only` query parameter to work using the regular
  `/metric` endpoint.
* Contains goapi implementation of the graph service.
* Query parser errors will now return a 400 status code instead of an incorrect
  500 status code.


### Hooper

Version: 0.1.1609887173 (4921f87)

* **(Breaking change)** Replace the obsolete `nad` host agent with the current
  version of `circonus-agent` on all systems managed by Hooper. The format of
  metrics emitted by circonus-agent has changed, and now uses Stream Tags. Any
  existing checks/rules against nad on these hosts may need to be adjusted or
  replaced.
  * A [reconfiguration run](https://docs.circonus.com/circonus/on-premises/installation/upgrading/#reconfiguration)
    will be required after upgrading Hooper to this version.
* Fix bug in config-check with the `ca` role `primary` attribute.
* stratcon: Enable tuning of timeouts for ingestion into IRONdb. This includes
  both TCP connection timeouts (`connecttimeout`) and overall transaction
  timeout (`timeout`). Values are in milliseconds. Deprecate the previous
  `irondb_put_concurrency` attribute in favor of a new `irondb_tuning` object,
  which can contain any of three keys:
  ```
  "irondb_tuning": {
    "timeout": 8000,
    "connecttimeout": 1000,
    "put_concurrency": 50
  }
  ```
  See [site.json stratcon
attributes](https://docs.circonus.com/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#stratcon-attributes)
  for more details.
  Reducing IRONdb timeouts may improve ingestion throughput by allowing
  stratcon to move on more quickly from poorly-performing IRONdb nodes.
  However, setting timeouts too low could negatively impact ingestion as well.


### libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.12.14

* Fix missing top of crash stacktrace when libunwind is being used.
* Set log message 'SSL layer X not understood' to debug-only if SSL version `X`
  is being explicitly disabled. This reduces logging noise with OpenSSL 1.1.x
  and later.
* Fix `segment_size` and `precommit` config processing for `jlog` logs.
  Previously, application requests to set these parameters could sometimes be
  silently ignored.


### notification

Version: 0.1.1609956725 (b151580)

* Bugfix: Correct handling of maintenance windows, expiration, incoming
  updates.


### Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1608135246 (4b1e25d)

* (broker) Reopen log files with dropped privileges. This addresses a corner
  case at startup where, if there is a JLog precommit buffer and the last
  available segment is full, a newly created segment will be owned by the wrong
  user.
* (broker) Improved locking around filterset manipulation (crash fix).
* (stratcon) Crash fix in the ingestion pipeline.
* (stratcon) Fix crash when removing a broker that has data submissions in
  flight.


### Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1610123864 (30c290c)

* Bugfix: send maintenance window changes to the Notification service.
* Bugfix: correct the Apache proxy forwarding rules to accommodate GoAPI proxy
  requests to Lua CAQL extensions.
* Bugfix: when searching on the Alert History page, it would remove any date
  range filter you had previously selected.
* Bugfix: support for streamtags and non-alphanumeric characters in metric
  names for SNMP and other checks. Also requires broker update to support this
  case.


### web_stream

Version: 0.1.1591797218 (3c0de1a)

* No changes since [2020-06-15](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2020#2020-06-15)
