# Release Notes: 2018-11-19

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1542379141 (de348ca)

* Remove warning log messages for missing checks.
* Add instrumentation for perceived message delay.
* Use /v2/metric_old endpoint for search resolution, allowing v3 upgrade of the
  web-service.
* Run caql-broker as non-root user.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1542336753 (c7ddb12)

* CAQL: Fix histogram validation
* New module, `graphite_egress_alter` for applying Graphite-specific transforms
  on metric results before they are sent back in a Graphite request.
* Fix `storage_file` open race.
* Remove NNTBS `info_db` metadata database.
  * The info_db was LMDB with a continuous update cycle.  All rows
    were replaced every rollup period causing horrific churn and bad
    performance pathologies on ZFS.
  * This entirely eliminates the database and replaces it with on-demand
    determination of epoch/apocalypse.
  * We introduce a new surrogate function to iterate over all surrogate
    keys which we now use for inventory processing during reconstitute and
    rollup recreation.
* Crash fix in Graphite response when expanding names that are leaves.
* CAQL: Allow "query" as alias for "q" parameter.
* Improved surrogate DB performance and reduced memory usage.
* Use the `jemalloc` allocator by default on Linux.
* Fix watchdog in full-delete path, when finding the list of metrics to delete.
* Provide offline surrogate DB maintenance tool.
* Fix issue where Graphite metrics tags were mixed with Circonus stream tags.
* Fix crash caused by rare race condition when inserting new metrics into the
  surrogate DB.

## GoAPI

Initial release: This is a new internal component that runs on API and
web_frontend nodes. It supports the new
[Stream Tags](https://www.circonus.com/2018/11/introducing-circonus-stream-tags/)
features for the Web UI and API, and will gradually take over additional
REST endpoints from the existing Perl-based middleware.

Version: 0.1.1542652206 (68c290a)

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1542400689 (1dfdae0)

* Activate new GoAPI service on API and web_frontend roles.
* Add new `Search::V3` configurations to `circonus.conf`.

## libcircmetrics

Related roles: caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.0.1.1542307708

* Use new `h` histogram type for histogram stats.
* Improve performance by using different locking strategies.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.5.23

* Make SSL "connection closed" accept failures a debug message.
* Remove port from SSL connection failures so they log dedup.
* Make ncct (telnet console) output thread safe (crash fix).
* Fix leak of thread name in SMR context.
* Add `eventer_jobq_memory_safety_name()` function.
* Add reporting on SMR activity.
* Avoid unnecessary epoch synchronization (SMR), when there is no work to do.
* Fix SMR regression in jobs thread wind-down.
* Fix REST-driven jemalloc heap profiler.
* Do not block thread exit for SMR, instead disown the return queue and allow
  gc thread to cleanup (this also fixes leaks at thread exit)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1542385741 (9f4ac57)

* Fix replacing deleted checks. When a check is deleted, it is marked as
  deleted and recycled. This allows for it to persist long enough to be unused
  and replicated if needed.  This change solves two issues:
  * When a deleted check still in config was set via API, the
    deleted attribute was not cleared, so it appeared in config
    (and in running system) as updated-but-still-deleted.
  * When a deleted check wasn't yet flushed from config and the instance
    restarts, the check would be loaded as deleted, but not scheduled.
    This resulted in not recycling it.  Now it is scheduled and
    immediately descheduled so that normal recycling happens.
* Fix crash where statsd tries to use polls before initialization.
* Support heap profiling.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1542657093 (66f65d8)

* New feature: [Stream Tags](https://www.circonus.com/2018/11/introducing-circonus-stream-tags/)
  * In the UI, there is a new interface for metric searching, called "Metrics Explorer".
    It utilizes a new 
    [V3 search syntax](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/user/SearchingV3.html).
  * In the API, [metrics search](https://login.circonus.com/resources/api#searching)
    uses the same syntax (V3) as the UI. All other object type searches
    continue to use the existing V2 syntax.

* UI: Remove `filter_rules` feature flag.
* UI: Disable selecting metrics from "change brokers and metrics" if there are
  filters on the checkbundle.
* UI/API: reconstitute_noit filter_rules vs filter_id: move validation into
  scope that needs it.
* API: Handle user and contact_group REST endpoints via GoAPI.
* Address unescaping of form args for RawForm.
* API: Set account_id and check_name header fields in CAQL Backfill requests.

