---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-05-20

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1558034337 (cfc7f5a)

* Raise read-limit for HTTP requests from 1Mb to 20Mb, allowing for larger
  histogram fetches from snowth/IRONdb.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1557957963 (2a19201)

* Move surrogate activity updates into its own column family. This
  significantly reduces the I/O required for most surrogate db updates.
  Previously when activity records were updated, the entire surrogate entry was
  rewritten. Now, if the only change is updating activity, a much smaller
  update will be done. **This change modifies the surrogate database structure,
  breaking backward compatibility. A node that has been updated cannot be
  downgraded.**
* Reduce likelihood of timeout when fetching recent numeric rollup data via
  Lua.
* `/rollup/` API and CAQL fetching functions now correctly defer reads on
  replication delay.
* Performance improvements when debugging is disabled.
* Add surrogate checkpoint latency stats.
* Delete metric search metadata flush can be disabled by
  `x-snowth-metadata-flush` header.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
May 6.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1557855801 (9fc051c)

* Add support for tag filtering on `__name` and `__check_uuid` tags.
* Crash reporting will include the site domain for better identification by
  Circonus Support. This brings faultd crash reporting up to parity with
  reporting for other components.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1558239122 (c0284db)

* Improved connection error handling for both PostgreSQL and IRONdb database
  connections.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1558015453 (a26f55d)

* Configure circonus.conf key `Snowth::timeout` to avoid CAQL graph errors due
  to negative timeout value.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1558037805 (a297fa8)

* Improved error logging in the httptrap check module.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1558117472 (88bb20a)

* UI: Removed check tag filters and filter sets from the UI. These features
  were incompatible with stream tags.
* UI: Improved graph histogram data processing times by 30-60% (not including data
  transfer times).
* UI Bug: Added a default `Snowth::timeout` value to prevent graph CAQL errors if
  the configuration key isn't set.
* Bug: When creating or editing a check on a broker whose ID doesn't match its
  group ID, a spurious error was thrown, saying the broker was invalid.
* Bug: Changing the alias of a broker group would take an excessive amount of
  time, during which check creation would not work for that broker. This is now
  substantially quicker.
