---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-06-17

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1559587566 (08cc154)

* Better enforcement of search API timeouts.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1560384233 (97d6e38)

* Fix crash in full delete due to buffer overflow in an error message. The code
  has been audited for similar usage patterns and safer functions swapped in.
* Removed a misleading "missing activity cf" message from the errorlog on
  startup.
* Default text fetching to provide a prior sample if the requested start offset
  is between recorded samples. Expose `lead=<true|false>` query string
  parameter, defaulting to true.
* Prevent null pointer exception in the data replication path when the check
  name is undefined. (crash fix)
* CAQL: Assert that start times are before or equal to end times in queries.


## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1560472428 (ae192c7)

* The `/check` and `/metric_cluster` endpoints are converted from the Perl
  service to GoAPI services.
* Bug: User tokens that were still active, but were associated with a user with
  removed role or other permissions were failing to authenticate on `/account`
  endpoints.
* Bug: The `_active` field for the `/check` endpoint could contain inaccurate
  data.
* Improved thread safety, eliminating some unlikely, but possible, race
  conditions.
* Bug: The parser for v3 metric search queries contained a problem that could
  result in certain searches, containing unclosed quotation marks, triggering a
  process crash.
* Bug: Metric search v3 query processing was not correctly handling colon
  characters in tag values.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1560781040 (4c961bb) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1560781040 (5bfd2ea) (EL6)

* Remove obsolete data import cron job from web_frontend hosts. This was an old
  feature for bringing historical, external data into Snowth. This can now be
  done by sending data to a broker and specifying the timestamp.
* Updated caql_broker configuration template, allows for including all API
  hosts in caql_broker configuration, not just the first one.
* circonus-ssl-term service is now native systemd (EL7 only)

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.13

* Fix crash (double free) in sending AMQP messages in duplicate, seen in
  faultd.
* Avoid DWARF scanning in luamtev by default, speeding up application start.
* Add hooks and a module for watching HTTP request servicing.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1560360681 (f9bd840)

* Broker: HTTPtrap checks will now report the number of metrics filtered
  (suppressed from collection), in addition to the number collected ("stats").

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1560553557 (f17fcea)

* API: The `/check` and `/metric_cluster` endpoints are converted from the Perl
  service to GoAPI services.
* UI Bug: Grid Graphs' legends in narrow viewports (under 1200px) can be
  unreadably narrow, so they're now allowed to be wider, up to the full grid's
  width.
* UI Bug: The HTTP check config was missing the 'uri' field so when
  creating/editing a check, any entered target URL was reduced to only the host
  (the path was stripped off).
* UI Bug: When creating a graph from the Metrics Explorer, use the metrics'
  display names (without stream tags) when possible.
* When creating an HTTPtrap check in the UI, the new check will now default to
  non-asynchronous data collection, because this is more logical for most
  people.
* Updated the design of informational grids across the detail pages.
* UI Bug: Fixed the check module page's 'Existing' tab, where deleting a check
  would cause other checks to erroneously disappear.
* UI Bug: Fixed the 'Authorize PagerDuty' button on not-yet-authorized
  PagerDuty Contact Groups.
* UI Bug: Fixed user count shown on system dashboard, so it doesn't include the
  automatic account user.
* UI: Improved Dashboard list page: added sorting arrows to the table column
  header links, and made Title the default sort field.
* UI Bug: Fixed prompt modals' datepickers so they aren't clipped by the modal
  body.
* UI: Fixed Metrics Explorer bug: selecting a metric for graph creation, then
  paging to the next or previous page of metrics would forget the selected
  metrics from non-visible pages.
* Bug: Fixed error with missing lib "Circonus::DB" in check tag migration
  script.
* Updated Metric Details page so it now shows its Check UUID and canonical
  Metric name, and also indicates that the tags shown at the bottom of the page
  are not editable and are actually coming from its Check Bundle.
