# Release Notes: 2019-11-04

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20191104/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1571662694 (f20bfce)

* No user-facing changes.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1572543705 (ce023db)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.
> We plan to remove these deprecated functions on 2020-01-31 for the SaaS site,
> and in the subsequent Inside release on 2020-02-10. This will affect
> CAQL checks as well as CAQL Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users
> a warning when one of the deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a
> more powerful tag-search feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* CAQL: Fix a bug where `histogram:*()` functions would remove tag information.
* Additional surrogate db loading stats and checks.
* CAQL: Fix bugs with limiting and sorting outputs.
* CAQL: Add default labels to `histogram:*` output.
* CAQL: Add `tag:remove()` function.
* CAQL: Set default/max limits for CAQL find() queries to 1000/3000
  (configurable)
* CAQL: Speed-up data fetching with the `metric()`, and the deprecated
  `search:metric()` and `metriccluster()` functions, by leveraging the `/fetch`
  endpoint.
* CAQL: Add deprecation warning to `search:metric()` and `metriccluster()`
  functions.
* Allow query parameter `activity=0` to `/find/tags` to suppress activity
  information.
* Support telnet-like console access via the administrative web UI.
* CAQL: Optimize a number of query patterns to leverage federated data processing:
  * `find() | stats:{sum,mean}`
  * `find() | count()`
  * `find() | top()`
  * `find:histogram() | histogram:merge()`
  * `find:histogram() | histogram:sum() | stats:sum()`
* Fix CAQL `count()` function, to not count `NaN` values.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1572489618 (14a6eaa)

* Some crash-reporting attributes were missing due to a broken shell variable
  in `/opt/circonus/etc/fault.env`.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/Changelog/20190812.md#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1572268435 (6059c21)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Improvements have been made to the internal sqldb package to improve thread
  safety and performance of database operations.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1572534736 (1cdc62c) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1572534736 (5d4093e) (EL6)

* Update enzo-c (web_stream) and faultd configs to reduce the number of FQ
  messages processed per invocation. The default (10K) could lead to watchdog
  timeouts in some situations.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.9.2

* Fix race in implicit eventer callback naming (crash).
* Fix http/1 and http/2 issues moving requests into and out of ACO mode
  (symptom was hangs and crashes when mixing ACO and non-ACO request service on
  a single http session).
* Fix memory leaks in initial logging setup.
* Fix sign issues in jobq statistics.
* Add `total_jobs` to jobq statistics.
* Support LIFO ordering on jobqs.
* Fix watchdog traces on `e:default/0`, its hearbeat thread was unassigned.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1570571834 (00b2aa2)

* No changes since [2019-10-21](/Changelog/20191021.md#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1572495211 (2f9ae98)

* Broker: support stream tags in statsd checks.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1572639958 (10c8119)

* Bug: Some stale alerts would not force clear.
* UI bug: Fixed vertical positioning of tooltips.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/Changelog/20190909.md#webstream)
