---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-03-11

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1551739521

* No user-visible changes.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1552074869 (8c8c2dc)

* Make efficiency changes to internal locking mechanisms to improve CPU
  utilization.
* Fix bug where metadata deletions could break in-memory indexes.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1551984179 (8833a44)

* Implements the full functionality of the /metric endpoint and switches from
  using the standalone implementation of metric search, to the new version
  incorporated into the GoAPI metric service.
* Fixes some issues with v3 IRONdb query parsing when using metric search.
* Fixes a memory leak that was occurring with use of an upstream library.
* Fixes an issue with JSON parsing that was affecting several services.
* Removes or converts all use of the `metric_notes` table to the new
  `ruleset_notes` table.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.4

* Fix mtev_hooks to be usable with more compiler warning flags.
* Fix starvation issue in fq module hook polling.

## Notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No user-visible changes.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1551739521 (42e84df)

* Increase max metric name length in HTTPtrap module.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1552061759 (32e54a3)

* Add support for clustered Enterprise Brokers for fault tolerance. This is a
  beta feature.
* Bugfix for dashboard metric selection dialog.
