---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-10-21

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20191021/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1566485402 (461cc6c)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/Changelog/20190826.md#caqlbroker)

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1571252712 (3d8a865)

* Fix `account_id` handling for CAQL histogram summary views
* Add sensible default labels to CAQL `histogram:percentile()` output
* Speed-up CAQL `integrate()` function
* Leverage `/fetch` endpoint for CAQL `find()` operations
* Support a filter config option for the monitor module.
* Support histogram input for `/fetch` `groupby_stats`
* Implement histogram `/fetch` transforms: `{inverse_,}{quantile,percentile}`
  and `count_{above,below}`.
* Bug: fix crashes related to bad locking when adding/removing a metric locator
  from the surrogate cache.
* Bug: fix integer overflow in `/fetch` endpoint that could cause incorrect
  results on occasion.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1570478395 (6c6286c)

* No user-facing changes

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/Changelog/20190812.md#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1571322390 (e767037)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: An error in the logic used when looking up a single metric by CID, using
  the `/metric/{cid}` endpoint, sometimes produced an incorrect result. This
  occurred when the metric shared the same name as other metrics and contained
  stream tags which were a subset of other metrics' stream tags.
* Bug: An error in JSON decoding for `alert_format` values by the contact group
  service resulted in a failure to update contact group when `alert_format`
  field values contained the JSON `null` value.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1570471055 (7205b93) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1570035842 (6a67415) (EL6)

* No changes since [2019-10-07](/Changelog/20191007.md#hooper)

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.8.5

* Bug: fix double-free in AMQP broadcast delivery (libmtev-amqp module).

## notification

Version: 0.1.1570571834 (00b2aa2)

* Bug: ensure that a database row is updated before fetching the results (crash
  fix).

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1571258240 (9e5e96f)

* Broker: redo statsd module to use histograms intelligently.
  * This is a breaking change as metric names will change.  However, the prior
    implementation was severely broken and not cluster-capable.  This should
    use histograms where it makes sense.  For counters, we count in the zero
    bucket so that no one attempts to sum them (they should count them).
* Add support for cumulative histogram metrics, such as those exposed by
  libmtev jobq stats.
* Broker: be more lenient with DNS timeout handling

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1571428985 (81fe7f9)

* Bug: Fixed shared Worksheets' layouts, which were very broken.
* API: The endpoints `/caql` and `/data` are now being handled by GoAPI.
* Bug: Updated UI for IE11 compatibility.
* Updated UI for API Tokens page.
* Bug: Correct initial timestamps when creating annotations from a graph view.
* Bug: Fix bug preventing the creation of Contact Groups.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/Changelog/20190909.md#webstream)
