---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-07-01

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of this release, GoAPI will no longer use the PostgreSQL database for
metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to this
release, if you have not already.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1561658841 (410bb85)

* Add setting `api/@global_concurrency` to control the total number of active
  HTTP requests against the API
* Add setting `//caqlbroker/@window_timeout` to control grace period for late
  arriving data
* Drop late arriving data right away, to protect from message floods
* Add xcall.json handler for state inspection
* Don't register checks multiple times, when we already have a working version
* Fix: check delete notification
* Emit status messages during startup until all statements are initialized
* Emit status messages about ongoing search updates
* Set socket connection timeouts, to avoid long hangs when nodes are down
* Avoid HTTP requests to nodes, that have just failed
* Don't keep tcp connections open for multiple HTTP requests

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1561733293 (3685f92)

* Add activity data to `tags/<id>/find` JSON responses.
* Bug: Address inconsistent activity windows on single stream batch loading.
* Bug: Fix consistency issue with in-memory indices of check/tag set-crdt data.
* Bug: Fix potential crashes related to not acquiring the read lock before
  cloning an OIL (ordered interval list) object for activity tracking.
* Bug: Fix memory leaks that occur in the metrics database when using `/find`
  to search for metrics. One leak occurred while using find during a delete
  operation. Another was failing to free allocations that went unused during
  metric name expansion, under some circumstances.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1561515497 (2b8283c)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: A signal handling issue could, in certain cases, cause the goapi process
  not to terminate properly.
* Bug: Environment variable definitions were not loading properly on systems
  using SysV/init.d scripts for service management.
* Bug: The metric service was not properly handling v2 format queries in metric
  bundles.
* Bug: SysV init scripts failed to record the PID of the started service,
  breaking subsequent operations.
* GoAPI will now verify that any IRONdb nodes being accessed by internally used
  clients meet the minimum version requirements for the version of GoAPI
  running. Nodes running older versions will not be used by GoAPI internally,
  and error messages will be logged recording the occurrence. The node, its
  current version, and the required version are included in the log entries.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.16

* Add `/module/lua/xcall.json` REST endpoint (for state inspection)
* Add lua `mtev.semaphore()`
* Fix web UI where suppressed tabs would prevent mtev-loaded signal.
* Fix compiler warnings for gcc 7.
* Fix inverted predicate in configuration property iteration.
* Add upload bytes to http access log format.
* Add timeout parameter to `socket:connect()` in lua
* Fix deadlock caused by `eventer_t:close()` in lua

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1561660814 (29aa66a)

* Stratcon: Raise default backlog from 10000 to 100000 in the FQ driver.
* Broker: Fix for failing `ping_icmp` test checks.
* CAQL Broker: Allow dropping of late arriving data.
* Broker: Add noit console command `show filterset` for displaying information
  on the filters that control collection of individual metrics.
* Broker: Use HTTP 4xx response codes for httptrap errors. Previously too many
  errors fell through to a default 500 code.
* Broker: Fix chunked-encoding in httptrap module. This will help avoid
  timeouts and other bad behavior when sending large JSON payloads to an
  HTTPtrap.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1561756109 (de5338c)

* UI: Graph loading speed has been improved for checks with large numbers of
  metrics.
* UI Bug: Eliminated a script injection vulnerability (from metric names) on
  metric details page due to how the account switcher menu was being output.
* UI Bug: Selected value type for Metric Search datapoints on a graph was not
  being obeyed.
* Bug: Unable to add rules to Rulesets for histogram metrics.
* UI Bug: Multiple overlays on a graph could have their loading prematurely
  canceled, continusously showing the spinning-gears icon.
* UI Bug: The first Capacity Planning overlay added to a graph would not show
  its lines extending all the way across the plot.
* Bug: Change to SAML Auth object to eliminate a lock that could cause a rare
  dead-lock situation.
* Validation for ruleset patterns and tag filters.
* UI Bug: Slack notification test messages now work correctly. Slack alerts
  were not affected, but the test button did not work.

