---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-02-25

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1549926243

* No user-visible changes.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1550864137 (f65de2d)

* Node will now log error and exit when writes to RocksDB fail - previously, it
  would log the message and continue running, which could lead to data loss.
* Fix off-by-one area in internal metric data storage struct that could cause
  potential crashes.
* Fix license expiration date display bug on GUI.
* Add optional metric prefix parameter to `/tag_cats` and `/tag_vals` APIs.
* Fixes to several timeout issues.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.3

* When spawning a child asynch job within an existing asynch job, persist the
  subqueue assignment rather than always making it the first subqueue every
  time. This will help in job scheduling fairness.
* Expose `EVENTER_ASYNCH_COMPLETE` as a preferred and more descriptive literal
  for the old `EVENTER_ASYNCH` literal. `EVENTER_ASYNCH` is informally
  deprecated.
* Add aco support for non-simple asynch work (with all three asynch call
  phases).
* Add aco support for enqueueing asynch work with deadlines.
* Add support for eliding asynch work on jobs when a deadline is set and no
  cancellation type is provided (don't start work when it is already past the
  deadline).
* Fix fair scheduling of subqueues when there is a single job in flight.
* Add test for jobs subqueues and deadlines.
* Add stats exposure for mtev_intern pools, including via the mtev console.
* Change `mtev_hash` implementation to XXH64 to improve speed.
* Fix `mtev_intern` freelist manipulation bug resulting in leaks and crashes.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1549926243 (ee165e9)

* Expose libmtev stats in stratcond.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1550868640 (6d03bcf)

* Deprecated metric notes+link in the metric API (this was the same as ruleset
  notes+link and now will be available only via rulesets.) Also removed notes
  from the metric details page.
* Fix account-level metric count rollup to update hourly with the maximum
  active metric count in the last 24 hours. This adds JustSendData support to
  the value.
