---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-06-03

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1559062556 (522f7c7)

* No user-facing changes

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1559241333 (30cfa8d)

* Graphite: ensure `/find` endpoints emit valid JSON.
* Fix invalid JSON being returned from `/tag_cats` and `/tag_vals` API
  endpoints.
* Increase default `surrogate_writer` jobq concurrency to 6 (from 1).
* Fix race in metrics db (search indexes) where some metrics might be omitted
  during index construction.
* Fix crash when /rollup rollup_span == 0 (and require rollup_span > 0).
* Faster setmeta serialization for merge.
* Change histogram quantile/sum/mean operations to return approximations that
  minimize the relative error.
* Bug/CAQL: Fix `histogam:count_below()` to also count samples in the current
  bucket, as the documentation states.
* Bug/CAQL: `histogram:stddev()` will return nan for histograms with a single
  value not 0.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
May 6.

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.11.0

* Use socket keep-alives for client/server connections.
* Fix use-after-free bug in lua ffi client bindings.
* Use native systemd service configuration on EL7.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1559334691 (1ec1464) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1558637582 (4cf3ea8) (EL6)

* Use the appropriate service manager for circonus-fq on EL7, now that it is
  native systemd.
* Fix ruby compile error in fault_detection role if the [new site.json attributes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection)
  are left out.
* If crash reporting is enabled, it should be set up for the fault_detection
  role (faultd).

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.12

* Fix crash bug when an SSL/TLS listener has npn set to "none" explicitly and a
  client tried to upgrade via ALPN.
* SECURITY: bug fix in http authentication handling where thread fan out could
  short-circuit ACLs with allow.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1559059743 (8b4bec9)

* Broker: Make httptrap immediate (async) mode more efficient.
* Broker: Improve httptrap and prometheus measurement batching.
* Broker: Add REST endpoint to redirect to the owning node in a cluster.
* Broker: fix crash bug where a bad metric name can produce a null metric
  record.
* Broker: Add `java.lang.Object` to the whitelist of types that JMX checks will
  collect.
* Stratcon: add a REST endpoint for showing the config.
* Broker: enable new OpenTSDB ingestion module.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1559324336 (a95bc39)

* Ruleset API cid is now numeric, fixes API Object display for Dynamic Alerting
  rulesets.
* Preliminary Ruleset Tag Filter support for Dynamic Alerting (alpha).
* Bug: fixed the case where creating a maintenance window with a null start
  time (starting 'now') would throw an error.
* Allow the creation of maintenance windows in the past, to retroactively
  affect uptime reports.
* Added a new check type: Kubernetes (via the Prometheus module).
* When creating or editing a check, allow users to proceed even if DNS lookup
  of the target fails.
