---
title:
draft: true
---

# Release Notes: 2019-05-06

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after applying the current update,
but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1556907805 (28039c7)

* `/rollup/` and CAQL fetching functions now correctly defer reads on
  replication delay.
* Performance improvements in the `raw_ingestor` module used by Stratcon to
  send metrics into Snowth.
* Performance improvements in CAQL when debugging is disabled.
* Exposure of metric metadata into lua for use by CAQL and other lua extensions.
* Performance improvements when looking up locations on the topology ring.
* Ensure all journal replication threads are supplied with work. Previously, if
  more than one replication thread existed and there was not sufficient load to
  utilize all of them, some journal segments were not removed after their data
  was replicated. This led to increased disk usage over time, and was
  exacerbated by a change to the default journal replication concurrency in the
  2019-04-08 release.
* CAQL: Add type checking facilities to CAQL function arguments.
* CAQL: `histogram:count_*()` processing on higher periods, was off by a factor
  of `VIEW_PERIOD/60`. This is corrected now.
* CAQL: Expand label() functionality.
* CAQL: Add tag() function.
* Fix thread safety issues that could lead to occasional crashes.
* CAQL: Fix `find:histogram_cum()` functionality.
* CAQL: Performance Improvements.
* Additional IRONdb documentation on the [UI Internals tab](https://www.irondb.io/docs/operations.html#internals-tab),
  which contains a rich set of statistics for troubleshooting performance
  problems.

## fault_detection

This release brings a replacement for the fault-detection function of Ernie. A
new, libmtev-based application, "faultd", will now perform this function. The
previous Ernie service will remain but only performing its secondary role as
the "composite broker". It will no longer process rulesets or generate alerts.

In order to complete the transition, the following attributes must be added to
the `fault_detection` stanza in `site.json` prior to updating to this release:

```
"registration_token": "<uuid>"
```

where `<uuid>` is generated from the `uuidgen` command-line tool or other
source. This token will be pre-authorized to access the API in order to load
rulesets.

```
"faultd_cluster": {
    "server1": { "node_id": "<uuid>" },
    "server2": { "node_id": "<uuid>" }
}
```

where `<uuid>` is generated from the `uuidgen` command-line tool or other
source. This object describes the nodes that participate in the faultd
cluster. Each hostname from `_machlist` should be represented, each with their
own UUID.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1556628952 (926d69a)

* New package: `circonus-platform-fault-detection` (CentOS), `pkg://circonus/platform/fault-detection` (OmniOS)

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## GoAPI

Version: 0.1.1556813464 (c49eb69)

* Metric lookup by CID fixed to work with stream tags.
* Performance improvements to metric searches by check_uuid that use wildcards
  in the metric name search term.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1557153261

* Configure new `faultd` daemon to replace Ernie's fault detection
  functionality. See the "fault_detection" section above.
* Add a configurable session key string to `circonus.conf`. This improves the
  security of session cookies when using Circonus native authentication.
  Operators may set the `session_key` attribute within the `web_frontend`
  section in `site.json` to an ASCII string of 8 or more characters. If not
  set, a default string will be generated. This setting has no effect for users
  that authenticate via LDAP or OAuth2/SAML.
  * **For deployments using Circonus native username/password authentication,**
    **all logged-in users will need to log in again after this update is**
    **applied.**
* As part of Template feature removal (see the Web UI section below), disable
  the following template-related services on the `hub` role:
  * `template_rules_sync`
  * `pending_check_processor`

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.10

* `mtev_intern` pools (reference-counted dictionaries of strings) with
  `extent_size` 0 should just malloc/free. This saves the work of doing
  compaction (including locking) on empty pools.
* Introduce `mtev_log_has_material_output` function to test whether a given log
  stream will result in actual output. Used to reduce the overhead of logging
  when a log stream is disabled (such as debug logs).
* Change the default jobq memory safety from `cs` to `gc`.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1556127102 (7de1e31)

* Apply filtersets to histogram metrics.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1556920684 (e0a3880)

* Fix memory leak in message parsing.
* Make FQ subscription unconditional. Previously, some watch events did not
  connect to FQ.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1556917562 (0e85542)

* UI: Fixed metric active status display on the check details page, so that
  when metrics are disabled manually, their status will be updated in the list
  sooner, usually within five minutes. Added notices to this effect to the
  check editing tab and the editing confirmation modal.
* UI: Fixed the metric details page which uses the standard metric search to
  pull some metric metadata; use a 10 year activity period instead of the
  default 2 weeks.
* UI: Updated how graph errors are shown so they can be shown on all types of
  graphs including histogram summary graphs.
* UI: Added an "unsupported" error when trying to view a histogram summary of a
  graph containing an aggregated cluster datapoint.
* UI: When warnings are returned from a graph CAQL datapoint in the new DF4
  format, return the warnings to the user and render them in the graph errors.
* UI: Templates have been permanently removed. All checks bound to templates
  have been unbound and are now standard editable checks.
* UI: Clarified notices around inactive checks so their relationship to their
  bundle is clearer.
* UI: Fixed the graph CAQL datapoint editor so error notices are removed when
  the error goes away.
* UI: Improved graph data request handling so that multiple data requests aren't
  firing over top of each other.
* UI: Fixed graph CAQL histogram detection so histogram data will be detected
  even if the first series is all nulls.
* UI: Bugfix to avoid a crash in shared dashboards.
