# Release Notes: 2019-09-23

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20190923/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1566485402 (461cc6c)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/Changelog/20190826.md#caqlbroker)

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1568996292 (276d4f8)

* Performance and correctness improvements to reconstitute.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1568056007 (7799d6f)

* No user-facing changes.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/Changelog/20190812.md#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1569001079 (6219c5c)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* No user-facing changes.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1566853977 (bd6c6c1) (EL7, OmniOS)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/Changelog/20190909.md#hooper)

Version: 0.1.1566836624 (a6acd3e) (EL6)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/Changelog/20190826.md#hooper)

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.8.0

* Performance improvements in the eventer (reduced overhead of tracking
  callback latencies).

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/Changelog/20190311.md#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1568908358 (25a9b3e)

* Performance: (broker) adopt the same batching of submissions on generic
  socket listeners (e.g., graphite) as is used in the httptrap module.
* Bug: (broker) Fix memory leak in metric setting when metric name is bad.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1568922877 (668cb9c)

* UI improvement: Display number of results and pages in Metrics Explorer.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/Changelog/20190909.md#webstream)
