# Release Notes: 2018-12-03

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1543406236 (0ba5459)

* Add a counter for dropped messages.
* Add `/v2` to metric_cluster URL.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1543521136 (dace2b5)

* Increased speed of surrogate cache loading at startup.
* Add `snowthsurrogatecontrol` tool, which allows offline review and
  modification of the surrogate database.
* Fix reconstitute bug edge case where certain metric names would cause the
  reconstitute to spin/cease progress.
* Fix bug where certain HTTP requests could hang.
* Change default raw db conflict resolver to allow overriding old data with
  flatbuffer data from a higher generation.
* Fix crash in metric serialization.
* Memory utilization improvements.
* Memory-leak fixes.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1543502147 (c9c5e08)

* Preserve escape sequences in alert_formats JSON from database.
* Add `X-Circonus-More-Items` response headers to metrics search responses,
  when needed.
* base64-encode all name/tag queries when sending search requests to
  data\_storage/IRONdb.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1543866611 (0a308b7)

* Add crash-reporting support (Backtrace) to web_stream.
* Restart stratcon service when its package updates.
* Add custom-generated Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters for stratcon TLS
  connections.
* Fix first-time setup issue with missing MQ directory.
* Change a comment line in circonus.conf so as not to interfere with GoAPI
  config parsing.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.5.26

* Fix DNS fast failures in lua that could cause null pointer dereference.
* Fix support for aco-style REST handlers. This bug manifested as failed upload
  support.
* Fix naming of aco events. They now report the underlying event.
* Rearchitect the watchdog timeouts to allow children to cooperate and signal
  into the correct thread so we get a SIGTRAP-induced stack trace from the
  offending thread. (only systems with pthread_sigqueue, like Linux).
* Articulate in logs and in glider invocation which thread watchdogged.
* Fix hangs in HTTP content upload when clients paused in the middle of a block
  (bug introduced in 1.5.24)
* Fix ACO registry mismanagement causing crashes.
* Fix leak of `ck_epoch_record` on thread termination.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1543411336 (2f9fa32)

* Fix null-pointer dereference in DNS check.
* Include thread names for jlog threads (assists with debugging).

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1543608912 (eb918bc)

* Update selfchecks with metrics relevant to enzo-c.
* Fix for invalid search query errors.
* Add `graphite_tls` to check modules database table for new installations.
* Let `create_super_admin.pl` take a password on the command-line. This allows
  for more automation for initial setups.
* UI: Fix viewing of metric names containing a "/" character.
* API: Fix for database deadlock when updating large numbers of checks in a
  single transaction.
* UI: Do not show broken link in popup dialog on graphs page.
* UI: Fix graph cluster datapoint expansion to properly handle histogram
  metrics from new GoAPI search service.
* API: Document that GoAPI search supports the `X-Circonus-More-Items` response
  header for paged results.
* UI: Clean up the layout of the Integrations module grid.
