# Release Notes: 2019-03-25

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1552591160

* Minor logging change.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1553020531 (ace1097)

* Support caching metric metadata in NNT cache.
* Add support for pulling tagged stats by adding a "format=tagged" querystring
  to the stats.json API endpoint.
* Move `snowthimport` error log message "file already found" to the debug log.
* Fix typo in statistics: "hits_meta" is now "hit_meta".

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1553269234 (68f1106)

* Efficiency improvements to reduce calls to `data_storage` backend.
* Better handling of lost database connections.
* Metric search speed improvements.
* Add support for new metric API query parameters, `active_start`, `active_end`
  * See "Metric Search Query Parameters" in the [Circonus API docs](https://login.circonus.com/resources/api/calls/metric).

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.5

* mtev_memory: prevent multiple gc_return queue deinit (crash fix)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1552591160 (0996c30)

* Filterset fixes for stream tags.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1553276106 (09e6ec8)

* (UI) Allow the timeline to be shown above shared graphs, including alerts and
  text metrics from the current graph, if desired.
* (UI) Updated the Metrics Explorer and Metric Detail pages so when a metric
  has multiple types (numeric, text, histogram) due to a type change, the user
  can switch between all available types for historic data visibility.
* (UI) Added a heads-up legend on the graph when in datapoint select mode
  (enter this mode by holding down the 's' key and hovering over the graph).
* (API) Add support for new metric API query parameters, `active_start`,
  `active_end`
  * See "Metric Search Query Parameters" in the [Circonus API docs](https://login.circonus.com/resources/api/calls/metric).
