# Release Notes: 2019-10-07

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20191007/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1566485402 (461cc6c)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/Changelog/20190826.md#caqlbroker)

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1570133025 (aed1386)

* Performance improvements related to opening raw timeshards.
* Various performance improvements related to data fetching:
  * Less piecemeal work is performed, which means that long runs of fetches are
    performed in the same jobq and not fanned out as extensively.
  * Epoch/apocalypse times for numeric fetches are accelerated using activity
    tracking.
  * The /rollup `engine=dispatch` endpoint now does a simple merge of nntbs and
    raw.
  * Legacy /rollup behaviour of a complex nntbs/raw/nntbs sandwich is available
    via `engine=dispatch_coarsen`.
* Greatly improve performance when fetching rollup data for a stream that has
  no historic data before the starting time and for which there are many prior
  raw timeshards. This improves the fetch time from tens of seconds to tens of
  milliseconds.
* Bug: Fix memory leaks in raw data iterator and surrogate db loading.
* Bug: Change the `/fetch` API endpoint to perform work in the
  `snowth_fetch_remote` and `snowth_fetch_local` jobqs. It was using an
  incorrect jobq before.
* Bug: Fix use-after-free that could cause crashes when using the `/fetch` API
  endpoint.
* Bug: Fix `ck_fifo` usage to prevent memory misuse that could lead to crashes
  when loading the surrogate DB or processing journal replication data.
* Bug: Fix various potential crashes in reconstitute/rebalance.
* Bug: Fix console web UI to prevent abusive loading of json data after a
  suspended connection is reestablished.
* Change raw data reconstitute to use flatbuffers instead of M records. **This
  is a breaking change for reconstitute. Once a node is upgraded to this
  version or later, all other nodes must be upgraded before reconstitute will
  work properly again.**
* Add `surrogate_database/@{latest_future_bound,implicit_latest}` and track the
  latest arriving value for metrics accordingly. Expose them via find according
  to a `latest` query string parameter.
* Performance improvements in database iteration - should improve both insert
  and fetch operations.
* Bug: Ensure that surrogate db reconstitute is finished before inserting text
  and histogram records during reconstitute to avoid potential race conndition
  when updating the surrogate db.
* CAQL: Support for labeling multiple output streams with `label()` function.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/Changelog/20190506.md#faultdetection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1569426459 (d5a4a92)

* Fix off-by-one error in metric name length when counting the number of
  rulesets that exist for a metric.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/Changelog/20181231.md#faultdetection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/Changelog/20190812.md#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1569618092 (e4dbbe6)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: an error in the data service internal protobuf handling was causing
  errors when processing data results that contained null values.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1570471055 (7205b93) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1570035842 (6a67415) (EL6)

* Disable and remove the Graphite/snowth proxy service, whose functionality is
  now part of GoAPI. This resolves potential listener port conflicts.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.8.4

* Fix alignment issue in logging related to freeing built flatbuffers. This
  requires a patched flatcc 0.4.3, or 0.5.0 or later. configure.in was updated
  to enforce this requirement. The bug manifested as a crash on large log
  messages (10s of kilobytes or more).
* Fix MPMC `ck_fifo` in `mtev_log` to be 16-byte aligned (crash bug).
* File-based (and stderr) logs now split newlines into separate annotated log
  statements making logs easier to read.
* Address several crash issues with ACO+eventer interaction
* The stock web UI javascript was fixed to prevent a flurry of queued API
  requests when the application comes back up after an interruption and the UI
  remained active in the browser.
* Elide a function call in the logging path when zipkin spans aren't active.
* Update the web support to assist displaying clusters.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/Changelog/20190311.md#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1569513096 (cf512e0)

* Fix allowable metric name size in function that pulls metrics from JSON
  input.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1570212862 (6fde7bd)

* Updated design of login pages and added new feature affordance area.
* Bugfix: Correct hosts page counts for active checks and metrics.
* Update UI notifications system so most notifications are now inline instead
  of using modals.
* Limit memory growth and retire apache worker process above 500MB RSS to avoid
  OOM conflict.
* UI improvement: Replaced all icons and refined page config controls across
  the entire UI.
* Bugfix: brokers that connect in to stratcon (NAT mode) would incorrectly
  cause notifications that they could not be reached. This has been silenced.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No changes since [2019-09-09](/Changelog/20190909.md#webstream)
