---
title: 2019-07-29
---

# Release Notes: 2019-07-29

[EL7 pinned repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo): `baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20190729/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1564054667 (17914d0)

* Fix bug where checks were not replicating in a cluster, due to an ACL
  problem.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1564067063 (29c2d48)

* Fix a bug in CAQL `find()` where fully completed queries would be reported as
  truncated.
* Don't truncate CAQL `find()` queries that have been running for less than 4
  seconds.
* Fix bug where we would occasionally return null data when doing a proxy using
  the rollup endpoint.
* Fix rare crash bug in journal replication.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#fault_detection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1563974858 (d20e534)

* No user-facing changes

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.11.0

* No changes since [2019-06-03](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190603#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1563940604 (1fdc21c)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: URL decoding was being processed more than once on some requests,
  resulting in changes to search queries.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1564162107 (a9bdb41) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1564162107 (fcd1316) (EL6)

* Fix permission issue with stratcon REST API and the `noit_version_check.js`
  script. A missing ACL rule caused the script to be unable to pull broker
  capability information.
* Add a module-load configuration to stratcon, a new dependency of the existing
  `raw_ingestor` module that loads metric data into IRONdb.
* Configure a watchdog glider for faultd so that crash reporting works
  properly.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.24

* Change the http/1 driver to drain inbound data before completing the request
  (empty reponses to HTTPtrap checks).
* Always remove epoll registration when migrating to a new thread (IRONdb crash
  bug on Linux).
* Fix eventer reference tracking for cross-thread triggers (IRONdb crash bug).

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190311#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1563977300 (cc1af6f)

* (broker) Avoid double logging of HTTP errors in the HTTPtrap module.
* (broker, caql_broker) Increase timeout for cluster configuration pulling.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1564083169 (5cc55db)

* UI: Ruleset creation UI now disables non-working features (buttons and fields
  that will not function until the ruleset is saved), then refreshes after the
  first save.
* UI: Enable display of deleted rulesets (such as when linked from an alert
  view).
* UI: paging_size preferences could lead to timeout in loading graphs page.
* UI: Fix how metric names containing pluses are decoded (from the URI) on the
  Metric Details page.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1556920684 (e0a3880)

* No changes since [2019-05-06](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#web_stream)
