---
title: 2019-08-26
---

# Release Notes: 2019-08-26

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20190826/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1566485402 (461cc6c)

* Bug: De-duplicate histograms. Fixes a bug where several different H1 messages
  received for the same histogram metric would be aggregated. We only want to
  do that if the timestamps are different.
* Improvements to debugging facilities:
  * Add audit system that allows one to selectively emit debugging information
    for a set of checks
  * Improve xcall/statement information
* Bug: If two CAQL `find()` queries were matching the same metric, only one of
  them would get data.
* Bug: Add prefill logic for tag search/CAQL `find()` queries. Before that,
  certain statements involving CAQL `find()` were not initialized correctly
  after a restart.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1566503936 (d111cf4)

* Improved error messages when numeric and histogram records with bad
  timestamps are received. Now the type and metric name will be logged.
* Surrogate DB improvements and increased logging during full delete
  operations.
* Bug: Fix prometheus module label equality searches for values beginning with
  `/` or containing wildcard expansions `*` and `?`.
* Bug: Fix crash when fetching raw numeric data using metric names that cannot
  be canonicalized.
* Performance improvements to inter-node data journaling.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#fault_detection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1566506834 (bf5d52b)

* Bug: JS error caused ruleset searches in the admin console UI (port 9127) to
  display truncated results.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190812#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1566482299 (971a6e7)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: The REST API service is not routing requests properly when parameters in
  the URL path contain the '/' character, even when properly URL encoded.
* Bug: (EL6 only) SysV init scripts could report that the process failed to
  start when it actually had started successfully. 
* Bug: An unnecessary error message is being logged when deployed in an
  environment that does not have the database updates for snowth swimlanes.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1566840820 (96d7dc0) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1566836624 (a6acd3e) (EL6)

* More thorough configuration checking for `faultd_cluster`.
* Restart the FQ service if the package is updated.
* Configuration changes for `caql_broker`:
  * New format for specifying snowth nodes
  * New included configuration file for swimlane snwoth clusters. This is not
    used on Circonus Inside.
* Bug: snowth-circ-proxy and stratcon-crashreporter packages were being updated
  even if maintenance mode (`run-hooper -m`) was used.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.26

* Fix payload-complete logic in the http1 system for Content-Length requests.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190311#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566400722 (a4125ad)

* Bug: (broker) Fix clustered histogram submission with explicit `_ts` field.
  * Histogram submission is intentionally jittered when running in a clustered
    configuration. However, when `_ts` is specified, that jitter should not be
    applied. This change makes it such that jitter is not applied when logging
    a histogram with an explicit `_ts` setting.
* Feature: (broker) Support the `_ts` field on HTTPtrap payloads in synch mode,
  as if it were set to asynch (measurements are recorded as they are received.)
* Bug: (broker) Fix HTTPtrap payloads with duplicate data dropping some data.
* Bug: (broker) Fix how modules are determining complete HTTP payloads. It's
  not how much you've received, it is how much we've read from the wire.  If we
  can't decompress something we could get stuck thinking there should be more
  data when the http client has already ready everything.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1566577260 (b6fb543)

* UI Design: Design update for site masthead and navigation menus.
* Bugfix: Fixed CAQL, Cluster & Search Graph datapoints which can return
  different sets of metrics when the graph is refreshed, so that the legend
  remains correct even when the set of metrics changes upon a graph refresh.
* API: The endpoints `/account` and `/metric_cluster` are now being handled by
  GoAPI.
* Dashboard Text widgets have been improved, so they properly display the value
  range for histogram metric values.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566399690 (40b7685)

* Bug: Add stream tag support to fix certain dashboard widgets that were not
  displaying properly for metrics that had stream tags.

