---
title: 2019-07-15
---

# Release Notes: 2019-07-15

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1562943629 (afe4314)

* Support metric naming with the CAQL `label()` function

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1562962679 (4e29274)

* Dump out query text to error log on a parse error with tag query finds.
* Optimize surrogate replay and prevent/repair corruption via auto-repair.
* Increase default concurrency in `process_journal` and `data_read` jobqs.
* CAQL: Return an error on find calls if no account information is found.
* CAQL: Add labels for outputs, enabling custom naming for CAQL check metrics.
* Fix memory leaks in the metrics database related to searching for metrics.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#fault_detection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1557855801 (9fc051c)

* No changes since [2019-05-20](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190520#fault_detection)

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.11.0

* No changes since [2019-06-03](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190603#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1562941176 (9b703e3)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Metric search API calls may see improved performance as the service is now
  using activity metadata returned from IRONdb to determine metric active
  status. This reduces the complexity of the metric search operation and the
  number of queries sent to IRONdb.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1562337738 (f204493) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1562337738 (68ffa47) (EL6)

* Update stratcon ACL config to allow retrieval of libmtev application stats.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.18

* Make HTTP/1 flush/flush_asynch automatic.
* Add HTTP auto-flushing that defaults to a bchain size (~32k).
* Add `mtev_http_response_auto_flush` to control HTTP auto-flushing.
* Support `idle_timeout` on listener accepted sockets.
* Provide thread-safe access to http append methods.
* Reference count events during trigger to avoid freeing while in use.
* Add thread safety fixes to `mtev_intern`.
* Add preloads configuration option to lua_web/lua_general modules
* Add foreground SIGINT, SIGQUIT, and SIGTERM signals to call plain-old
  `exit()`.
* Add `mtev_{set,get}_app_name` functions to help in places where we need the
  config root.
* Add `mtev_http_request_payload_complete` to help consumers correctly
  determine if they should stop calling `mtev_http_request_consume_read`.
* `MTEV_MAYBE` macros will no longer initialize the entire initial buffer, only
  the first element (performance improvement).

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190311#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1562699734 (35247e6)

* (libnoit) Fix possible overflow in tag parsing.
* (libnoit) Eliminate duplicate XML document declaration in the REST
  configuration endpoint when the node name is not specified.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1562952001 (4dadad1)

* Dynamic Alerting: Rulesets using pattern-based definitions can now also
  provide tag query filters for easier, more dynamic Ruleset definition.
* UI Design Improvement: All tabular lists have been changed to card-based
  lists to provide more room for information.
* Bugfix: Uptime Report now works for all metrics, including those collected by
  check filters which are unknown to the Postgres DB.
* Bugfix: eliminate "No account_id passed to Snowth::query()" warnings by using
  `checks.account_id`.
* Bugfix: creating a `rule_set` via API for a very new check might incorrectly
  see the check as inactive.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1556920684 (e0a3880)

* No changes since [2019-05-06](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#web_stream)
