---
title: 2019-04-22
---

# Release Notes: 2019-04-22

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1555705775 (cf8a088)

* CAQL: Forward labels in top(k) queries
* CAQL: Fix cumulative histogram function.
* CAQL: Speed up `find()` and `histogram:create()`.
* CAQL: Fix rollup logic in `histogram:create()`. Previously, queries could
  return inconsistent results at higher rollup periods.
* Fixes for metric names longer than 1024 bytes.
* Set lower `snowth.get` timeout in Lua, to allow for query retries.
* Fix reconstitute bug in cases of incomplete file reads.
* Performance improvements to inter-node gossip communications.
* Support FlatBuffers requests in /histogram read endpoint.
* Support backlog display and stats filtering in UI (ported from libmtev).
* CAQL: Increase the default histogram fetch limit to 3M.
* CAQL: Accelerate sum/sub/prod/div operations.
* CAQL: histogram:percentile and histogram:count_* operations now act on
  multiple input slots rather than just the first one.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1555686909 (f4930dd)

* Fix issue with pipe (`|`) characters in metric names.
* Fix issues causing some database errors to fail to return properly, causing
  a request timeout.
* Fix issues with certain special characters in metric search queries and
  glob searches that were causing search failures.
* Fix routing for metric lookup by ID endpoints when used in conjunction with
  certain environments' load balancers.
* Update metric search query parsing to allow spaces in the primary search
  term (for metric name), before the first search term operator (and, or, not),
  even if it is not enclosed in quotes. Ex: `this used to be invalid and(now:it
  is not)`.
* Allow the process started with `goapi serve` to listen for REST API requests
  on ports for both UI search support and API metric search.  This eliminates
  the need to start two processes on API servers.
* Introduce support for a new metric CID format based on check UUID instead
  of check ID.  Metric endpoints will still return the current CID format in
  their data responses, but can lookup and respond to CIDs in both new and old
  formats.  The new format is `/metric/<check_UUID>_<metric_name>`, the
  existing format is `/metric/<check_ID>_<metric_name>`. No changes are
  required to any existing API tooling. A switch to the new format is planned
  for the future, but no date has been set at this time.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1555624984 (a3987ef) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1555606399 (ee0f220) (EL6)

* Remove api-search service from API role. This functionality is now handled by
  the main GoAPI service.
* (OmniOS only): Always restart `svc://circonus/api` (GoAPI) each run, as the
  package gets updated prior to the API recipe, invalidating the
  restart-on-update trigger. All GoAPI operations are stateless and
  transactional, so this is not a disruptive change.
* (EL7 only): New Inside deployments will use the "NNTBS" backing store format
  for snowth.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.8

* Add statistics for lua VM time and lua GC time.
* Expose the watchdog timeout as timeval: mtev_watchdog_get_timeout_timeval
* Expose eventer thread watchdog timeouts: eventer_watchdog_timeout_timeval
* Adjust max eventer sleeptime to not exceed 1/20 watchdog timeout.
* Heartbeat the eventer immediately upon event wakeup.
* Fix UI issue displaying histogram stats (bin compaction).
* Revert eventer_t allocation to the default allocator. This allows better
  introspection of memory usage when using jemalloc.
* Add max backlog stat for jobq and display. Job queues have had a backlog
  limit since version 1.1.3 but the value had not been exposed in the stats
  interface.
* Add filter for stats in UI. This allows for substring or regex filtering of
  the stats list, making it easier to find stats of interest.
* Be more careful when setting jobq concurrency from the console (crash fix).
* Explicitly name log dedup, amqp, and fq threads. This exposes more meaningful
  stats.
* Add more NULL safety in amqp connection management (crash fix).
* Default the jobq web UI view to hide completely unused jobqs. A slider icon
  in the top right corner of the panel can be used to toggle display of all
  jobqs.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1555689963 (15de914)

* API: When creating a graph via the API, the 'interpolated' line_style wasn't
  being respected and was rendering as 'stepped'.
* UI: Improved graph x-axis label rendering so labels don't overlap at small
  graph sizes.
* UI: Improved multi-stream CAQL graph datapoints so each stream will be broken
  out into its own datapoint.
* UI: Added stream label support to CAQL graph datapoints, so each stream's
  datapoint will be labeled with any CAQL-specified label, when available.
* UI: Fixed graph overlay bug: when using a graph comparison overlay, changing
  the date range would cause the overlay to render improperly.
* UI: Fixed the check tree browsing panel (used in the "New Ruleset" and Graph
  "Add Datapoint" modals), so it retrieves lists of checks correctly.

