---
title: 2019-09-09
---

# Release Notes: 2019-09-09

[EL7 pinned
repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20190909/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1566485402 (461cc6c)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190826#caql_broker)

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1567090720 (36446cc)

* CAQL `find()`: Make use of activity period tracking to avoid fetching empty
  metrics

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#fault_detection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1566934452 (a298b4a)

* Feature: make the rules system match on full, canonical metric names.
  Previously, the only way to alert on tagged metrics was to use search
  expressions, which could end up matching multiple metrics. Now it is possible
  to specify a precise, canonical tagged metric name.

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* No changes since [2019-08-12](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190812#fq)

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1567725266 (a02436e)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Feature: Metric search requests will now include a header in the response,
  called `X-Snowth-Search-Result-Count`. This value is the estimated total
  number of results reported by IRONdb that match the find query executed. This
  value may be different than the actual number of metric results returned by
  the request due to response limits and the pagination settings used in the
  request.
* Bug: invalid activity data returned by IRONdb could cause tag searches to
  fail.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1566853977 (bd6c6c1) (EL7, OmniOS)

* Ensure that snowth write copies value is at least 1. Previously for test
  deployments that used a single node, the write copies would be set to 0,
  which is invalid.

Version: 0.1.1566836624 (a6acd3e) (EL6)

* No changes since [2019-08-26](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190826#hooper)

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.7.2

* Set app: tag on all top-level stats namespaces.
* Support logging thread names that are set via `mtev_thread_*` APIs.
* Fix issue where the watchdog failed to restart broken child processes under
  certain OOM conditions on Linux.
* Change default behaviour of jobqs to be GC (garbage-collected) not CS
  (critical-section) for SMR (safe memory reclamation). This provides better
  performance with fewer locks.
* Cleanup some ABI exposure in the lua modules.
* Fix pathological performance issues with large HTTP responses that were
  written in small increments.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190311#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1567371584 (9bf80a0)

* Performance: (broker) Optimize for reading small chunks in an HTTP stream.
  This reduces reading from a hostile endpoint sending small chunks
  (10-20bytes) for a 1Mb payload from 25s down to 0.5s.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1567705501 (5060360)

* API bugfix: IRONdb check tag metadata was not being updated correctly when
  checks were created or modified using the `/check_bundle` API endpoint. This
  only affected checks modified via API calls, not checks created or modified
  using the UI. The [check tag migration script](#operator-note) (see above)
  should be run again after updating to this release, to ensure all IRONdb
  check tag metadata is correct.
* UI improvement: Option to edit ruleset name, ruleset default search will now
  include the user-defined name.
* UI: Users created prior to a 2017-08-14 change would no longer appear in the
  teams page.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1566849557 (a3e7e11)

* No user-facing changes.
