---
title: 2019-08-12
---

# Release Notes: 2019-08-12

[EL7 pinned repo](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/inside/InstallCentos.html#el7-repo): `baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20190812/x86_64/`

## Operator Note

Circonus is transitioning check tags (those that are associated with an entire
check, rather than stream tags, which are associated with a single metric) from
being stored in the PostgreSQL database to being stored in IRONdb/snowth.
Currently new tags added to checks are stored in both locations, but to prepare
for the eventual cutover to IRONdb/snowth as the single source of check tags,
operators are advised to run the following script from the system that serves
the "hub" role in your deployment:

```
/www/bin/checks/migrate_tags_to_snowth.pl
```

This will sync all existing check tags from PostgreSQL to IRONdb/snowth.
Depending on the number of checks and tags, this may take a while to run, so
using a terminal multiplexer such as tmux or screen is recommended.  It should
only be necessary to run this script once after updating to the 2019-05-06
release or later, but it will not hurt anything to run it more than once.

**As of the 2019-07-01 release, GoAPI no longer uses the PostgreSQL database
for metric searches, so it is necessary to run this script before updating to
the current release, if you have not already. If you are updating from a
release prior to 2019-05-06, run this script immediately after updating.**

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1565206165 (00ca7b9)

* Disable tag-search cache (since it does not work with check-tags). This will
  somewhat increase CPU utilization, and decrease memory usage.
* Enable check-tag replication modules. This will allow CAQL-broker to retrieve
  check-tag information from a snowth cluster. The snowth cluster information
  for check-tag replication will be pushed to the caql-broker via REST from
  a cron job on the hub role.
* Restrict web management UI access to localhost. This is the same behavior as
  on Enterprise Brokers. Operators who wish to have remote access should tunnel
  the connection over SSH.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1565286513 (3abf4a3)

* No user-facing changes.

## fault_detection

See the [2019-05-06 release notes](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#fault_detection) for
important configuration updates required if updating from a release prior to
2019-05-06.

Version (faultd): 0.1.1563974858 (d20e534)

* No changes since [2019-07-29](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190729#fault_detection)

Version (ernie): 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* No changes since [2018-12-31](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20181231#fault_detection)

## FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.12.0

* Fix minor libfq bug on Linux to retry an interrupted `poll()`.

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1565218550 (9d97498)

> The functionality to perform a Postgres-based, check UUID oriented search in
> metric search has been removed. This has been fully replaced by the more
> efficient and accurate search based on IRONdb tag search functionality. In
> previous releases, the new search functionality needed to be enabled with an
> environment variable setting: `GOAPI_IRONDB_TAG_SEARCH`. That variable
> setting is no longer needed or used.
>
> See the Operator Note at the top of this page for details on migrating check
> tags from Postgres to IRONdb. This is now required to be run in order for
> metric search results to work properly.

* Bug: An incorrect error code was being returned when the metric search
  service received a parse error response from IRONdb.
* Bug: The format of the `_cid` field returned by metric search API requests
  did not include metric name stream tags and therefore was not guaranteed to
  be unique for any given metric.
* Bug: The `X-Circonus-More-Items` header was not being returned correctly for
  some API metric search requests.
* Updates authentication service caching to improve performance and
  compatibility with Perl services.
* Updates cache utilization and adds database package improvements to the
  user service to improve overall GoAPI performance.
* Bug: Errors during parsing of invalid check definition XML were not being
  handled correctly in some cases, resulting in request failures.
* Bug: Database transaction close operations were causing a goroutine to hang
  indefinitely in some cases.

## Hooper

Version: 0.1.1565279419 (3ae47ca) (EL7, OmniOS)

Version: 0.1.1565279419 (c3e2040) (EL6)

* New hub cron job to sync check-tag information to caql_broker from IRONdb. 
* Raise fq client backlog to 100k messages in caql_broker configuration. This
  more reasonable limit will prevent unnecessary message drops.
* Update messaging for SSL/TLS certificate fetching 404 errors. It will more
  clearly indicate that another Hooper run may solve the problem.

## libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 1.6.25

* Fix bug in HTTP/1.1 chunked uploads. Chunks were not correctly read if they
  happened to lie of a buffer boundary. This manifested as stuck/hung
  connections when the chunk size was approximately 32KB.

## notification

Version: 0.1.1551816825 (18e4517)

* No changes since [2019-03-11](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190311#notification)

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1565301247 (a4ecbaa)

* No user-facing changes

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1565381187 (2839b03)

* Bugfix: Retire a removed team member's API tokens.
* UI: Design update for content and forms.

## web_stream

Version: 0.1.1556920684 (e0a3880)

* No changes since [2019-05-06](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/20190506#web_stream)
