---
title: 2018-12-31
---

# Release Notes: 2018-12-31

## caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1545429321 (fa98828)

* Tag search support.

## data_storage

Version: 0.1.1545615771 (be925c1)

* Skip deleting from the raw database when doing full deletes. Raw shards will
  be automatically deleted during rollup, so this saves considerable time in
  the full delete case.
* Remove timeout on single-metric raw deletes that caused spurious failures on
  larger delete operations.
* Extend NNT delete debug logging to cover NNTBS.
* Changes to support caql-broker tag search.
* CAQL: Create NULL literal that can be injected as a constant, as with
  VIEW_PERIOD and VIEW_RANGE.
* Fix several surrogate-db processing issues.

## fault_detection

Version: 0.1.1544639627 (db11a23)

* If not processing rules, do not load absence timers or perform broker checks.

## Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1545407666 (e21a326)

* Truncate long tag categories and/or values uniquely. Truncated tags will show
  the longest possible amount of the original tag category or value, suffixed
  with `_tldr_<sha1_hex>` where `<sha1_hex>` is the hash of the original
  category or value.
* Changes to support caql-broker tag search. 

## GoAPI

Related roles: api, web_frontend

Version: 0.1.1546009951 (21a3612)

* Fix search bug with base64-encoded regex queries.
* SAML authentication support.

## Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1545359271 (65330ee)

* UI: Fix "Add Login" control for Okta on user profile page.
* UI: Fix encoding of annotation titles and descriptions on annotation details
  page.
* Allow searching rules by check UUID.
* Prevent repeat alerts from rules on inactive checks.
